Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain a horror,
sci-fi film, thriller film called “Life.”
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A team of astronauts aboard the International
Space Station prepares to intercept the Pilgrim,
a satellite capsule returning from Mars.
The Pilgrim carries soil samples from Mars,
and what the astronauts hope carries
confirmation of life from the red planet.
Intercepting the Pilgrim and finding out
whether or not life is possible on Mars is
the team’s primary objective. Unfortunately,
the Pilgrim is damaged and veers off course.
Rory suits up and prepares for a spacewalk.
He would be outside the space station,
controlling a mechanical arm to catch the Pilgrim.
His colleagues are helping him gear up for his
assignment. The space station is filled with
tension as the astronauts navigate the station,
all rushing into their posts. Their commander,
Ekaterina, and another astronaut, Sho, are at
the station’s command center, overseeing
the operation. The other astronauts watch
intently as the station moves into position to
intercept the Pilgrim. David, the station doctor,
monitors Rory’s vital signs. He, along with the
lead scientist, Hugh, watch Rory from a window.
Anxiety fills the station as they finally see
the Pilgrim capsule approaching the station.
Rory navigates the arm into position, and
as the Pilgrim barrels in and makes contact,
the whole station jolts back. The astronauts
are pushed back, but as they gather back at
the window, they see Rory has caught the
Pilgrim. Cheers and smiles are exchanged
as Ekaterina announces to NASA that the Pilgrim
capsule has successfully landed on the station.
At the laboratory, Hugh carefully
takes samples from a container and
places them under a microscope. He discovers
an organism almost fossilized in the sample.
He describes it as something similar to a
single-cell organism. Hugh tries reanimating
the organism, but it doesn’t react. He then tries
mimicking an atmosphere closer to a proterozoic
Earth and adding in a growth hormone. To
everyone’s surprise, the organism starts moving.
Hugh can’t help but giggle, as they’ve
confirmed life from a different planet.
The team later goes into a call from Earth. News
outlets and large crowds are all celebrating the
discovery of extraterrestrial life.
The astronauts chat with students
announcing that their school had been given
an extraordinary chance to name the Martian.
The kid declares that they decided
to name the organism “Calvin.”
After the call, the astronauts resume
their tasks. Hugh and Rory bicker while
trying to fix plumbing. Meanwhile, another
doctor, Miranda, checks on David’s health.
Miranda is concerned because David had been on
the station for a significant length of time,
almost breaking the world record for the longest
time in space. David says he doesn’t mind,
as he prefers staying on the space
station. He feels like he belongs there.
They continue testing the organism the following
day. Hugh found that Calvin has grown rapidly,
now consisting of hundreds of cells and developing
a neural network. Hugh notes that each of
Calvin’s cells can perform every somatic function
independently, meaning each of Calvin’s cells are
simultaneously a muscle cell, a nerve cell, and
a photoreceptive cell. Calvin is a creature that
is all brain, all muscle, and all eyes. Calvin
has also developed to have appendages, and Hugh
tries making contact. The crew watches anxiously
as Hugh plays around with the alien creature.
The crew later has dinner while Sho calls
his wife, who’s currently undergoing labor.
Sho then introduces everyone to his newborn
daughter. The crew then heads into their quarters,
each tending to themselves. David examines
himself for injuries and ailments,
Sho continues his call with his family, and Hugh
is back at the lab, interacting with Calvin.
Several weeks pass, and the
station is rocked by an alarm.
Rory, Miranda, and Hugh all rush to the lab.
Rory heads in and fixes the malfunction,
and Hugh admits he must have overseen
something for the lab to malfunction.
Miranda stresses the importance of keeping Calvin
contained as they don’t fully understand it yet.
Hugh is irked, saying they shouldn’t liken
Calvin to a disease, but Rory gets annoyed,
saying that Calvin is an alien species
and that Hugh shouldn’t grow too attached.
Later, Miranda makes a note that Calvin has now
become dormant after weeks of sustained growth.
They suspect that Calvin may have gone
to hibernation as a defense mechanism
when the lab malfunctioned. She says she is
relieved as the creature was growing too fast.
This pause in its growth has given her and the
crew time to review their containment procedures.
Calvin and the lab must remain
sealed off at all times.
Miranda expresses that the health of everyone
on board far outweighs any harm to Calvin.
Hugh discusses Calvin with Miranda. He stresses
the importance of their mission and studying
Calvin’s cells. He poses that Calvin could unlock
the secret to curing any disease or potentially
healing every ailment. He proposes giving
Calvin a small electric shock to awaken it.
In the lab, Hugh prepares to electrocute Calvin.
After several shocks, Calvin springs awake,
latching to Hugh’s hand and breaking the
electric wand. The crew tries to remain
calm as Calvin grips Hugh’s hand. Hugh tries
pulling, but Calvin maintains a tight grip.
Hugh starts shouting in pain as Calvin starts
squeezing. Calvin begins folding Hugh’s fingers
into unnatural shapes, and Hugh begins begging
for help. The crew wants to head in and help,
but Miranda tells them they can’t risk placing
another crew member in danger. As the crew argues,
Calvin breaks Hugh’s hand. Hugh then starts
floating, unconscious, his hand a mangled mess.
In the container, Calvin tries breaking free.
It uses a piece of the broken electric wand to
pierce one of the gloves. Calvin breaks
free, leaving everyone in utter shock.
Calvin makes its way to a lab rat specimen. It
suddenly attacks, wrapping itself around the
rat and digesting it. Rory enters the lab,
fetching Hugh. David receives Hugh but has
to close the lab door before Rory makes it out
as he sees Calvin latch itself on Rory’s leg.
Rory then gets an oxygen candle,
hoping to burn Calvin off his leg.
He burns Calvin, and it jumps off. Ekaterina
then gives the other to kill the alien.
Rory takes an incinerator and prepares to
flame Calvin. He starts hunting the alien,
bathing it with flame. Calvin runs around the lab,
hiding, but Rory chases after it. Rory corners the
alien, believing to have Calvin trapped in a
container. Rory discovers the container empty,
and Calvin pops up behind him. The alien grabs
Rory’s face and makes its way into Rory’s mouth.
Rory begins choking, and the crew
watches in horror, unable to help.
A large amount of blood spews out of Rory’s
mouth as he floats lifelessly in the lab.
The incinerator triggers a fire alarm,
and fire suppressant gas fills the lab.
Calvin exits Rory, now appearing
to have grown a hundredfold.
Sho and the commander try manually closing the gas
as Calvin could use the gas holes as a way out.
As the final valve closes, Calvin
reaches it and squeezes out.
Ekaterina sends out a distress call to NASA,
but Sho sees the transmission has failed.
They would need to venture out to fix
it. Ekaterina suits up and heads out.
She reaches the transmitter and sees it has
overheated. She opens the coolant chamber
and sees it empty. She surmises that
Calvin could have reached the coolant.
Hugh, now conscious, theorizes that Calvin
may have consumed the coolant for sustenance.
As they talk, Calvin launches itself out of
the coolant chamber and latches onto Ekaterina.
Ekaterina makes her way back to the station
airlock, but she notices liquid in her suit.
Calvin has ruptured her coolant tube, and
Ekaterina realizes she could drown soon. Liquid
starts inhibiting her vision, and she decides
to leap for the airlock. Liquid coolant floods
into Ekarina’s helmet, and she starts drowning.
David rushes to the airlock to meet Ekaterina, and
Miranda warns him that Ekaterina may be frantic
and irrational. Ekaterina makes it to the airlock,
and David advises her to help him unlock the
airlock. To David’s surprise, she starts turning
the airlock’s lever in the opposite direction.
Miranda realizes that Ekaterina is deliberately
locking herself out to save the crew from Calvin.
Ekaterina eventually drowns, and David and Miranda
watch her float away. Calvin jumps back to
the ship, and David weeps in frustration.
Hugh tries calming everyone down, telling them
Calvin has been outside far too long for any
creature to survive. Sho tells them Calvin could
still enter the station through the thrusters.
They monitor the thrusters, and each time a
thruster experiences a temperature change,
Sho ignites it. Unfortunately, all the thruster
blasting causes the station to veer off,
and Sho has to use the remaining fuel
to put the station back in orbit.
This allows Calvin to sneak back into the station.
Hugh realizes that Calvin’s species must have
dominated Mars for millions of years but went
into hibernation when Mars’ atmosphere
collapsed. He proposes they should simulate
the same on the station to force Calvin back into
hibernation. They would retreat to one capsule,
seal themselves off, and expel the
oxygen from the rest of the station.
They retreat to a capsule and seal everything
off. Miranda notices Hugh getting weaker.
Hugh blames himself for what happened, but David
says it was a team decision to take Calvin.
Hugh says Calvin isn’t their enemy
as it’s only trying to survive.
And for it to survive, it must kill
them. Hugh gets weaker and passes out.
The crew tries to help stabilize Hugh, but
Miranda notices something moving in Hugh’s leg.
She unzips Hugh’s pants and finds
Calvin feeding on Hugh’s leg.
They all jump back. Miranda uses a defibrillator
to shock Calvin, but it only catches the alien’s
attention. They rush out and get split up,
and Sho gets stranded in the sleeping pods.
David and Miranda return to Hugh, and David
sees that Hugh would soon pass. David sees
Calvin moving through the ship in a hologram.
Calvin had accidentally swallowed Hugh’s tracker,
leaving Miranda and David the ability to track
the creature. They then lock themselves off
and purge oxygen from the other compartments.
Calvin starts suffocating when they suddenly
get a proximity warning. They look out the window
and see a Soyuz shuttle docking with the station.
Miranda reveals that the Soyuz isn’t there to
rescue them but to push them into deep space.
It is a final security measure ensuring
no alien life would ever reach Earth.
Believing the shuttle docking is a rescue
mission, Sho leaves his sleeping chamber
and rushes to the Soyuz. As he tries to get
the hatch open, Calvin sneaks up behind him.
Miranda and David hurry to Sho but are too
late. They see the cosmonauts inside the
Soyuz getting devoured and Sho trying to make his
way back out. The Soyuz breaks away, and the seal
between the two stations fails. The station begins
decompressing, and Sho starts getting sucked out.
Calvin suddenly latches onto Sho’s leg and starts
climbing. As Calvin gets closer to Miranda, Sho
decides to grab Calvin and allow himself to get
sucked back. Sho falls and gets sucked into space,
but Calvin manages to cling to the station.
David helps Miranda climb up and manages to
lock Calvin out. The station starts falling
apart, and parts and debris fly everywhere.
David sees that all the chaos has once
again pushed the station into the Earth,
leaving them about thirty minutes before
the station re-enters the atmosphere.
With depleting oxygen, David gets an idea.
Calvin is searching for oxygen, so they could
probably use the oxygen candles to lure it.
He plans to lure Calvin to one of the escape pods
and launch himself into deep space with Calvin.
Miranda would then get into a different pod and
land back on Earth to tell everyone what happened.
They initiate their plan, and David heads out with
an oxygen candle. David carefully traverses the
station, and Calvin shows up and hugs his oxygen
candle. David flees and uses another oxygen candle
to lure Calvin. David gets to the escape pod, and
Calvin rushes in and hugs him. Seeing that David
has made it to the pod, Miranda begins making
her way to the other pod. David launches his pod,
and he begins heading into deep space. Miranda
then launches, and they start separating.
In a black box recording, Miranda
narrates what happened in the station.
She recommends treating all Martian
life as dangerous and hostile and
advises to use all possible means to
kill Calvin if it ever reaches Earth.
Both capsules run into debris,
and both begin malfunctioning.
Calvin grabs David’s hand, but he tries
his best to maintain his trajectory.
Miranda descends, but her pod’s
navigation systems start malfunctioning.
The two pods drift farther apart. David screams
in agony as Calvin wraps around his arm.
One pod finally enters the atmosphere while
the other flies off into space. The pod ends
up crash landing in the ocean. Fishermen see
the pod descending and approach it. In the pod,
they see David covered in tendrils of flesh.
In space, Miranda continues veering off.
The fishermen work together to get the pod
opened, and David tries to discourage them,
but they can’t understand him. More
fishing boats approach the pod,
unknowingly bringing themselves closer
to their, and the planet’s, doom.